---
layout: default
title: "K12MATH006: Math Grade 6"
course_description: "Topics covered in this course include multiplication and division of fractions, ratio reasoning, unit rates, expressions, equations, area, surface area, volume, and statistics."
next: ../Unit02
previous: ../Intro
---
**Unit 1: Number Sense** <span id="1"></span> 

*The first unit of this course involves extending your prior knowledge
of fractions and decimals. You will use models to show how the division
equation works. This will help you make sense of finding quotients
involving fractions. During this unit, you will also work with negative
integers along a number line. This might involve negative temperatures
(cold!), having credit or debt with money, or changing elevation as you
hike up a mountain or scuba dive into the ocean. During this
number-sense unit, make your best effort to do just as the unit title
implies - make sense of numbers. Don’t try to memorize equations;
rather, understand the numbers and operations, so you can continue to
make sense of the math in future situations.*

**Unit 1 Time Advisory**  
Completing this unit should take you approximately 13 hours.

☐ Subunit 1.1: 5 hours and 15 minutes

☐ Subunit 1.2: 30 minutes

☐ Subunit 1.3: 2 hours and 45 minutes

☐ Subunit 1.4: 1 hour and 45 minutes

☐ Subunit 1.5: 2 hours and 45 minutes

**Unit1 Learning Outcomes**  
Upon successful completion of this unit, you will be able to:

-   Compute quotients of fractions.

-   Solve word problems involving quotients of fractions.

-   Use visual models and equations to represent division of fractions.

-   Fluently compute multi-digit division of numbers.

-   Fluently add, subtract, multiply, and divide multi-digit decimals.

-   Solve for the greatest common factor of two numbers.

-   Solve for the least common multiple of two numbers.

-   Use the distributive property to change expressions.

-   Define the opposite of a number.

-   Extend a number line to represent negative rational points.

-   Order rational numbers using lists and inequalities.

-   Define absolute value and interpret how it is used in real world
    situations.

Standards Addressed (Common Core):

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.5.NF.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/5/NF/A/1)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/2)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/3)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/4)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.5](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/5)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.4](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/4/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.7](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/7/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.9](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/9/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.2](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/2/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.4](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/4/)

**1.1 Fractions** <span id="1.1"></span> 

*Fractions are used in our daily lives in a variety of ways. The U.S.
customary measurement system uses fractions as a measuring tool
(example: 3/8 inch). Fractions are also used in cooking and baking
(example: 3/4 cup), and fractions can even be used to describe partial
situations (example: I completed 1/4 of the project). These are just a
few general examples of how fractions are used. In this subunit you will
review addition and subtraction of fractions, as well as work with
multiplication and division. These concepts might already be familiar to
you. However, adding models and fluency will be a key concept that you
should focus on while working.*

**1.1.1 Operations with Fractions** <span id="1.1.1"></span> 
**1.1.1.1 Adding and Subtracting Fractions** <span id="1.1.1.1"></span> 

*You and a friend have decided to bake cookies. You both want to make
chocolate chip cookies, but you each have a different recipe. The two of
you decide to have a “bake-off” in order to do a taste test and figure
out which recipe is the best. You plan to go grocery shopping together,
buy everything that you need, and come back to your house to bake the
cookies. Since both recipes call for the same ingredients, just
different amounts of each, you decide to add your amounts together.*

*Adding fractions, as well as subtracting them, is an important concept
to understand when dealing with recipes because most ingredients are
listed as parts of a whole cup.*

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Addition of
    Mixed Numbers”**
    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Addition of Mixed
    Numbers”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVK_T3TgU5k) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Work through the problems with the instructor in the
    videos. Pay attention to strategies that help you find a common
    denominator.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.5.NF.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/5/NF/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVK_T3TgU5k).

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “Subtracting Mixed Numbers
    2”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“Subtracting Mixed Numbers
    2”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4LYtLMmDuzw) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Work through the problems with the instructor in the
    video. Pay attention to the two different strategies of subtracting
    fractions.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.5.NF.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/5/NF/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Howard County Public School System’s
    “Cookie Calculations”**

    Link: Howard County Public School System’s [“Cookie
    Calculations”](https://grade6commoncoremath.wikispaces.hcpss.org/Unit+2+A+Numbers+and+Operations+-+Fractions) (HTML)

    Instructions: On the above webpage, scroll down until you see
    “5.NF.1 Cookie Calculations Recipe.docx” under the first section.
    Download the document to display the two recipes.In your notebook,
    draw three columns and title them “Ingredients,” “Calculations,” and
    “Amount to Buy.” Use the amounts of each of the nine ingredients
    from each recipe to fill in your columns. In the “Ingredients”
    column, you will list the ingredients and their amounts that you
    need to buy based on the recipes. You will show your work in the
    “Calculations” column and your final answer in the “Amount to Buy”
    column. Here is an example of what the first row of your table might
    look like. Notice that the ingredients match the needed amounts from
    each recipe, the “Calculations” column shows the process and number
    sentence, including finding a common denominator and simplifying.
    The total combined amount of butter is listed under the “Amount to
    Buy” column.

    <table>
    <tbody>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td align="left"><p><strong>        Ingredients</strong></p></td>
    <td align="left"><p><strong>               Calculations</strong></p></td>
    <td align="left"><p><strong>       Amount to Buy</strong></p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
    <td align="left"><p>   <strong>1</strong> 2/3 cups of butter     <br /><br /><br /><br /><br />    <strong>1</strong> 2/4  cups of butter</p></td>
    <td align="left"><p>  <strong> 1 </strong>2/3 = <strong>1</strong> 8/12  <strong>1</strong> 2/4 = <strong>1</strong> 6/12          <br />  </p>
    <p><br /><br />   <strong> 1</strong> 8/12 + <strong>1</strong> 6/12 = <strong>2</strong> 14/12 = <strong>3</strong> 2/12</p></td>
    <td align="left"><p>  <strong> 3</strong> 1/6  cups of butter   </p></td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
    </table>

    When you have completed the above activity, check your answers
    [here](https://resources.saylor.org/wwwresources/archived/site/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/K12MATH006-1.1.1.1-CookieCalculationsRecipe–AnswerKey.pdf).

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.5.NF.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/5/NF/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)[Creative
    Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to Howard County Public Schools Office of Secondary
    Mathematics Curricular Projects, and the original version can be
    found
    [here](https://grade6commoncoremath.wikispaces.hcpss.org/Grade+5+Numbers+and+Operations+-+Fractions).

**1.1.1.2 Multiplying Fractions** <span id="1.1.1.2"></span> 

*In the previous subunit you combined ingredients before you went to the
store. What happens if you want to double or triple a recipe to make
lots of cookies? This would involve multiplying each ingredient by two
or three. In this subunit you will see that multiplying fractions can be
modeled using a fraction bar. As you work through this subunit, pay
attention to how the fraction models work so you are able to use models
when you multiply fractions.*

-   **Explanation: College of the Redwoods Mathematics: *Prealgebra
    Textbook*: “Chapter 4, Section 2: Multiplying Fractions”**

    Link: College of the Redwoods Mathematics: *Prealgebra Textbook*:
    [“Chapter 4, Section 2: Multiplying
    Fractions”](http://mathrev.redwoods.edu/PreAlgText/chapter4.pdf) (PDF)

    Instructions: In the table of contents, click on “4.2: Multiplying
    Fractions.” Read through the explanation on page 249 about how to
    draw a visual model of multiplying fractions. Copy the sample model
    in your notebook. Do “Example 1” using a visual model. Make sure to
    recognize how the word of is used in math.

    Read about the multiplication rule on pages 250 - 251 to understand
    the formula for multiplying fractions. Try “Example 2” using this
    method.

    Reading this section, working the examples, and taking notes should
    take approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)[Creative
    Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Department of Mathematics, College of the
    Redwoods, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://mathrev.redwoods.edu/PreAlgText/chapter4.pdf).

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “Multiplying Fractions and
    Mixed Numbers”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“Multiplying Fractions and Mixed
    Numbers”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p729tFmpOXg) (YouTube)

    Instructions: While watching this video, pay attention to how the
    instructor changed a whole number into a fraction and how you can
    simplify the fraction after multiplying or before multiplying.
    Sometimes it’s easier to simplify before multiplying because then
    you don’t have to deal with digits that are very large.

    The last 1:20 on the video shows how this problem can also be solved
    using a model. Make sure you recognize how to model multiplication
    of fractions.

    Write a paragraph explaining how the model of a fraction
    multiplication problem works. Your audience is a younger student who
    has never multiplied fractions using a model. Make sure to use math
    vocabulary. Drawing an example model and using arrows/labels might
    be helpful.

    Watching this video, taking notes, and writing a paragraph should
    take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:  
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.2](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/2/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.4](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/4/)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)[Creative
    Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “Multiplying Mixed Numbers”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“Multiplying Mixed
    Numbers](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPhaidW0dmY)[”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPhaidW0dmY)
    (YouTube)

    Instructions: While watching this video, pay attention to how to
    change a mixed number into an improper fraction.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)[Creative
    Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Checkpoint: Wade Ellis, Jr. and Denny Burzynski’s “Introduction to
    Fractions and Multiplication and Division of Fractions:
    Multiplication of Fractions”**

    Link: Wade Ellis, Jr. and Denny Burzynski’s Fundamentals of
    Mathematics: [“Introduction to Fractions and Multiplication and
    Division of Fractions: Multiplication of
    Fractions”](http://cnx.org/content/m34928/latest/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Scroll through the models and samples (feel free to
    refer to these as additional resources, if needed) until you get to
    “Practice Set A.” In your notebook, complete all problems in the
    practice set. Check the solutions as you go. Make sure to always
    simplify your fraction.

    Complete the problems in “Practice Set B.” Use the “simplify before
    multiplying” strategy. Check the solutions as you go.

    Complete the problem in “Practice Set C.” Remember when you have a
    mixed number you have to convert it to an improper fraction before
    you can use the multiplication formula. Check the solutions as you
    go.

    Skip all parts of “Sample Set D” and “Practice Set D.”

    Continue practicing the problems beginning with “Exercise 28” and
    working through “Exercise 89.” Do all the even problems. Use the odd
    numbered problems as extra practice, as needed. The types of
    questions vary as you work. Check the solutions as you go.

    With all of the above problems, if you are not able to solve for the
    correct product, figure out your mistake. Read back through the
    sample items in each section or re-watch the videos provided.

    Completing these practice sets should take you approximately 45
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/)[Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to Wade Ellis and Denny Burzynski, and the original
    version can be found [here](http://cnx.org/content/m34928/latest/).

**1.1.1.3 Dividing Fractions** <span id="1.1.1.3"></span> 

*How do you feel about sharing? Sometimes we have to share, or split up,
parts of a whole. Other times, we have to share something that isn’t
whole -  like 2/3 of a leftover pizza shared among four family members.
How much pizza will you get? In this unit you will work to model
division of fractions. It is important to know and use the formula that
works for always dividing fractions. However, make sure you are able to
follow the models given to you in this subunit. Modeling division of
fractions is an important skill to have in this course. *

-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Division of Fractions by Whole Numbers”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Division of Fractions by Whole
    Numbers”](http://www.ck12.org/arithmetic/Division-of-Fractions-by-Whole-Numbers/lesson/Division-of-Fractions-by-Whole-Numbers/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read about Julia trying to figure out how many strips
    of paper she can cut from her poster board. Continue reading under
    the “Guidance” section about how you can model division of
    fractions. Do examples A - C. Write down the vocabulary words
    (Inverse Operation and Reciprocal) and their definitions in your
    notebook, as these concepts will be used often in this subunit.

    Watch the first video, “Khan Academy Dividing Fraction Example.”
    Work the problems while the video instructor completes them. Pay
    attention to the model he shows you at the end.

    Watch the third video, “James Sousa Example of Dividing Fractions.”
    Work through the problems while the video instructor completes them.
    Pay attention to the different strategies of how to simplify the
    fractions before solving.

    Reading this explanation, watching the videos, working the problems,
    and taking notes should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.ck12.org/book/CK-12-Concept-Middle-School-Math---Grade-6/section/7.10/).

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “Dividing Mixed Numbers”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“Dividing Mixed
    Numbers”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=51-U-Jkq79A) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Watch this video about dividing mixed numbers. Similar
    to multiplication of fractions, you will want to pay attention to
    how the instructor first makes the mixed numbers into improper
    fractions.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

**1.1.2 Solving Word Problems with Fractions** <span id="1.1.2"></span> 

*Understanding “how to” operate with fractions is important; however,
more importantly you need to know how to put your fraction skills into
real-life situations. When you encounter fractions - whether it’s in
baking, measurement, traveling distances, or just working with parts of
a whole - it is essential that you can define the necessary operation
and put your math skills into action. This subunit will help you break
down word problems and solve them successfully.*

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “Dividing Fractions Word
    Problem”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“Dividing Fractions Word
    Problem”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PQsgXNggV7Q) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Begin watching this video. However, click the pause
    button after you have a chance to read the problem provided. Try
    solving the problem before you watch the video. Check your process
    and your work once you have completed the problem on your own.

    Watching this video and working the problem on your own should take
    you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “Dividing Fractions Word
    Problem (Ex 2)”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“Dividing Fractions Word Problem (Ex
    2)”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4wo6S2NyFh8) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Begin watching the video. However, click the pause
    button after you have a chance to read the problem provided. Try
    solving the problem before you watch the video. Check your process
    and your work once you have completed the problem on your own.

    Watching this video and working the problem on your own should take
    you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “Multiplying Fractions Word
    Problem”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“Multiplying Fractions Word
    Problem”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJgIGwTysk0) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Begin watching the video. However, click the pause
    button after you have a chance to read the problem provided. Try
    solving the problem before you watch the video. Check your process
    and your work once you have completed the problem on your own.

    Watching this video and working the problem on your own should take
    you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)[Creative
    Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “Multiplying Fractions Word
    Problem (Ex 1)”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“Multiplying Fractions Word Problem
    (Ex 1)”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jZUgNoj-oHY) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Begin watching the video. However, click the pause
    button after you have a chance to read the problem provided. Try
    solving the problem before you watch the video. Check your process
    and your work once you have completed the problem on your own.

    Watching this video and working the problem on your own should you
    approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Checkpoint: Khan Academy’s “Multiplying Fractions Word Problems”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Multiplying Fractions Word
    Problems”](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/fractions/multiplying-fractions-word-probl/e/multiplying-fractions-by-fractions-word-problems) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice the word
    problem questions until you feel confident that you understand how
    to successful multiply fractions within word problems (recommended a
    minimum of 10 minutes of practice).

    Completing these practice problems should take you approximately 15
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    <span>Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a</span>[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)[Creative
    Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/)<span>.
    It is attributed to the Khan Academy.</span>

-   **Checkpoint: Khan Academy’s “Dividing Fractions Word Problems”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Dividing Fractions Word
    Problems”](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/cc-sixth-grade-math/cc-6th-arithmetic-operations/cc-6th-div-whole-fractions/e/division-with-fractions-and-whole-numbers) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice the word
    problems questions until you feel confident that you understand how
    to successful divide fractions within word problems (recommended a
    minimum of 10 minutes of practice).

    Completing these practice problems should take you approximately 15
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/A/1)

    <span>Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a </span>[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0
    Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/)<span>.
    It is attributed to the Khan Academy.</span>

**1.2 Long Division** <span id="1.2"></span> 

*Fluently using division is valuable to your daily life. This subunit
will cover the formula for using long division as well as the different
options for what to do when you have a remainder.*

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Khan Academy’s “More Long Division and
    Remainder Examples”**

    Link: YouTube: Khan Academy’s [“More Long Division and Remainder
    Examples”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NcADzGz3bSI) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Depending on your current level of understanding with
    division - and specifically long division - watch the first problem
    as an example, but stop it when you are given the problem for the
    second example. Try to solve it yourself before watching the
    solution.

    Watching this video and working the problem on your own should take
    you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Explanation: YouTube: James Olsen’s “Long Division with
    Remainders - Three Ways to Handle Them”**

    Link: YouTube: James Olsen’s [“Long Division with Remainders - Three
    Ways to Handle
    Them”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQ8HQvk5jyE) (YouTube)

    Instructions: The purpose of this video is to make you aware of the
    different ways mathematicians deal with remainders. As you continue
    in your math career, you want to make sure you are confident with
    writing a remainder as a fraction and a decimal. Also, it is
    important in word problems to understand what the remainder might
    mean for that particular word problem.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/2)

    Terms of Use: Please respect the copyright and terms of use
    displayed on the webpage above.

**1.3 Decimals** <span id="1.3"></span> 

*Decimals are used all around us. Most commonly, we use decimals when we
deal with money. It is important to know how to find an exact answer
while using decimals, and to use estimation skills. In this subunit you
will work with addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division of
decimals. You should have some prior knowledge about decimal placement,
place value with decimals, and saying a decimal number using proper math
grammar (example: 2.35 = two and thirty-five hundredths). If you don’t
feel confident with place value of decimals, do a little research on
your own at this time. An Internet search for “decimal place value”
should give you a good place to start.*

**1.3.1 Adding and Subtracting Decimals** <span id="1.3.1"></span> 
-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Adding and
    Subtracting Decimals”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Adding and Subtracting
    Decimals”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEHku41nb60) (YouTube)

    Instructions: While watching this video, pay close attention to the
    decimal placement throughout the addition and subtraction problems.
    Otherwise, you’ll notice that the addition and subtraction
    strategies remain the same.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/3)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEHku41nb60).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Wade Ellis, Jr. and Denny Burzynski’s
    “Decimals: Addition and Subtraction of Decimals”**

    Link: Wade Ellis, Jr. and Denny Burzynski’s [“Decimals: Addition and
    Subtraction of
    Decimals”](http://cnx.org/content/m34960/latest/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Click on the link above and scroll down to the
    “Exercises” section. Do exercises 12 - 36 and check your solutions
    as you go.

    Completing these exercises should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/3)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to Wade Ellis and Denny Burzynski, and the original
    version can be found [here](http://cnx.org/content/m34960/latest/).

**1.3.2 Multiplying Decimals** <span id="1.3.2"></span> 
-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Decimal Multiplication”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Decimal
    Multiplication”](http://www.ck12.org/arithmetic/Decimal-Multiplication/lesson/Decimal-Multiplication/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read through the text about multiplying decimals.
    Notice that decimal multiplication is not much different from
    regular multiplication. Ignore the decimal until you have the final
    product, and then place the decimal in the proper location. Both
    strategies of “counting decimal places” and “estimation” work for
    knowing where to place the decimal in the product.

    Do the example problems and check your solutions as you read through
    the text.

    Of the four videos accompanying the text, watch the first video
    “James Sousa Multiplying Decimals.” Pause the video at each example,
    solve it on your own, and then check your solution and steps with
    the instructor. (You are welcome to watch the other videos for
    additional practice.)

    Do the practice problems beneath the videos, and check your solution
    on a calculator.

    Reading this article, watching the video, and working through the
    problems should take you approximately 45 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/3)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.ck12.org/arithmetic/Decimal-Multiplication/lesson/Decimal-Multiplication/).

**1.3.3 Dividing Decimals** <span id="1.3.3"></span> 
-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Decimal Division”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Decimal
    Division”](http://www.ck12.org/arithmetic/Decimal-Division/lesson/Decimal-Division/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read through the text about dividing decimals. Notice
    that decimal division is not much different from regular long
    division. Pay attention to how and why mathematicians (you!) move
    the decimal place in both the divisor and dividend.

    Do the example problems, and check your solutions as you read
    through the text.

    While watching the Khan Academy video, pause the video at each
    example, solve it on your own, and then check your solution and
    steps along with the instructor.

    Do the practice problems beneath the video, and check your solution
    on a calculator.

    Reading this article, watching the video, and working through the
    problems should take you approximately 45 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/3)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.ck12.org/arithmetic/Decimal-Multiplication/lesson/Decimal-Multiplication/).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Howard County Public School System’s
    “School Store Task”**

    Link: Howard County Public School System’s [“School Store
    Task”](https://resources.saylor.org/wwwresources/archived/site/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/K12MATH6-School-Store-Task-Resource-Sheet.pdf) (PDF)

    Instructions: On the webpage above, scroll down until you find the
    activity titled “School Store.” (You will have to search carefully
    to find this.) Download the “6.NS.3 School Store Task Resource
    Sheet.” Follow the instructions on the document to solve each of the
    problems about buying school supplies. Think of different strategies
    that could be used to solve the problems.

    Use this [answer
    key](https://resources.saylor.org/wwwresources/archived/site/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/K12MATH6-Task-School-Store-Answer-Key.pdf) (PDF) to
    check your answers. This document has extension questions that you
    can use to challenge yourself. The solutions are at the bottom.

    Completing these problems should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/3)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)[Creative
    Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to Howard County Public Schools Office of Secondary
    Mathematics Curricular Projects, and the original version can be
    found
    [here](https://grade6commoncoremath.wikispaces.hcpss.org/Unit+2+The+Number+System).

**1.4 Factors and Multiples** <span id="1.4"></span> 

*Factors and multiples are used when you are finding patterns with
numbers. Developing fluency in factors and multiples will help you when
working with expanding and reducing fractions. As you will also see in
this unit, factors can be used to help with the distributive property.*

**1.4.1 Greatest Common Factors** <span id="1.4.1"></span> 
-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Factors”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    [“Factors”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v9dsxTCjdhE) (YouTube)

    Instructions: While watching the video, find the factors of each
    number on your own as the instructor does it. Fluently knowing your
    multiplication facts will benefit you greatly when finding factors.

    Watching the video and taking notes should take you approximately 15
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/4)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v9dsxTCjdhE).

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Example:
    Determining the Greatest Common Factor”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Example: Determining
    the Greatest Common
    Factor”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KbBJcdDY_VE) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Find the prime factorization of each number on your
    own as the instructor does it in the video. Pause the video if you
    need more time.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/4)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KbBJcdDY_VE).

**1.4.2 Least Common Multiples** <span id="1.4.2"></span> 
-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Example:
    Determining the Least Common Multiple Using Prime Factorization”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Example: Determining
    the Least Common Multiple Using Prime
    Factorization”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hZvRDG-HgMY) (YouTube)

    <span>Instructions: While watching the video, notice how the
    instructor shows a different method for determining the LCM. Either
    method works; however, this method using prime factorization will be
    a lot less time consuming if you need to find an LCM of larger
    numbers.</span>

    <span>Watching this video and taking notes should take you
    approximately 15 minutes.</span>

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/4)

    <span>Terms of Use: </span><span>This resource is licensed under
    a </span>[Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/)<span>. It is
    attributed to James Sousa, and the original version can be found
    </span>[here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hZvRDG-HgMY)<span>.</span>

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Example:
    Determining the Least Common Multiple Using a List of Multiples”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Example: Determining
    the Least Common Multiple Using a List of
    Multiples”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7twRSmgcrLM) (YouTube)

    Instructions: While watching the video, notice how the instructor
    makes a list of multiples for each number before looking for the
    least common multiple (LCM).

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/4)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7twRSmgcrLM).

**1.4.3 Distributive Property** <span id="1.4.3"></span> 
-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Using the
    Distributive Property to Multiply Quickly”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Using the Distributive
    Property to Multiply
    Quickly”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VyDN3wUjYZs) (YouTube)

    Instructions: While watching this video, think about how this
    strategy could be beneficial to you when multiplying mentally. You
    will continue to use the distributive property in many ways
    throughout your math career.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/4)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[ ](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/)[Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa, and the original version can be
    found [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hZvRDG-HgMY).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: College of the Sequoias: Ross Rueger’s
    Math 360 - PreAlgebra: “Chapter 1, Section 5: Greatest Common Factor
    and Least Common Multiple”**

    Link: College of the Sequoias: Ross Rueger’s *Math
    360 - PreAlgebra*: [“Chapter 1, Section 5: Greatest Common Factor
    and Least Common
    Multiple”](http://www.cos.edu/Faculty/rossr/Documents/1.5_GCF-and-LCM.pdf) (PDF)

    Instructions: Do “Exercise Set 1.5,” problems 1 - 27 (ODD) and 61 -
    64 (ALL). Answers can be found on pages 61 - 62.

    Completing these problems and checking your answers should take you
    approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.B.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/B/4)

    <span>Terms of Use: Please respect the copyright and terms of use
    displayed on the webpage above.</span>

**1.5 Rational Numbers** <span id="1.5"></span> 

*Using negative numbers in life usually means that it’s very cold
outside (temperatures below zero), you lost points in a game you are
playing, or possibly you are in debt to someone and owe them money.
Knowing and understanding the number line as it extends into negative
numbers is important as you relate the entire rational number system to
your real life.*

-   **Explanation: Cheryl Wilcox’s *Free PreAlgebra*: “Chapter 4, Lesson
    19: Negative Numbers”**

    Link: Cheryl Wilcox’s *Free PreAlgebra*: [“Chapter 4, Lesson 19:
    Negative
    Numbers”](http://home.comcast.net/~cherylwilcox1/Lesson19.pdf) (PDF)

    Instructions: This textbook introduces concepts covered in this
    entire subunit. This is a chance for you to begin to get an
    understanding of rational numbers. Separate your notebook paper into
    three sections. Label the sections “Definitions,” “Real-Life
    Situations,” and “Number Lines.” As you read pages 1 - 5, fill in
    the columns with information from text. These are the vocabulary
    words that you should look for to put in the definitions column:
    negative numbers, positive numbers, opposites, and absolute value.
    In the text, many real-life situations are mentioned, explained, and
    even illustrated with images. The more of these you can learn, the
    more beneficial this text will be to your understanding of rational
    numbers. Under the “Number Lines” column, you should use the type 2
    models to draw a few number lines and plot points to help compare
    greater than and less than.

    Do the entire worksheet on page 6 as practice. You could also do
    practice problems 8 and 9 on the two homework pages, page 8 and page
    12.

    Reading this chapter, taking notes, and working the practice
    problems should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.5](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/5)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/a)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/a)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7b](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/b)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7d](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/d)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.4](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/4/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.7](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/7/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.9](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/9/)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/). It is
    attributed to Cheryl Wilcox, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://home.comcast.net/~cherylwilcox1/Lesson19.pdf).

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Integers”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    [“Integers”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=04pURxo-iu0) (YouTube)

    Instructions: While watching this video, add notes to your notebook
    paper that has three columns from the previous activity. You should
    add the word integers to the definitions column. Also, pay attention
    when the video gives examples of how negatives numbers are used in
    real-life situations.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.5](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/5)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/a)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/a)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7b](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/b)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7d](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/d)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=04pURxo-iu0).

**1.5.1 Ordering Rational Numbers** <span id="1.5.1"></span> 
-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Number Line 2”**

    <span style="font-size: 12px;">Link: Khan Academy’s </span>[“Number
    Line
    2”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/absolute-value/add-sub-negatives/e/number_line_2) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice these
    exercises to make sure you feel confident with number lines.

    Practicing these problems will take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/a)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Ordering Negative
    Numbers”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Ordering Negative
    Numbers”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/absolute-value/add-sub-negatives/e/ordering_negative_numbers) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice these
    exercises to make sure you feel confident with ordering negative
    numbers.

    Practicing these problems will take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/a)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Number Line 3”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Number Line
    3”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/absolute-value/add-sub-negatives/e/number_line_3) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice these
    exercises to make sure you feel confident with number lines.

    Practicing these problems will take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/a)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Checkpoint: The Mathematics Common Core Toolbox: “Cake Weighing,
    Part A” and “Part B”**

    Link: The Mathematics Common Core Toolbox: [“Cake Weighing, Part
    A”](http://ccsstoolbox.agilemind.com/parcc/middle_1.html) and [“Part
    B”](http://ccsstoolbox.agilemind.com/parcc/middle_2.html) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read about the Tasty Treats Cake Factory in the gray
    box in “Part A.” Answer the question and check your answer with the
    Submit Answer button. Do not move on until you have the correct
    answer.

    For “Part B,” answer the question and check your answer with the
    Submit Answer button. Do not move on until you have the correct
    answer.

    Completing these two questions and checking your work should take
    you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7)

    Terms of Use: Please respect the copyright and terms of use
    displayed on the webpage above.

**1.5.2 Absolute Value** <span id="1.5.2"></span> 
-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Comparing Absolute
    Value”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Comparing Absolute
    Value”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/absolute-value/abs_value_tutorial/e/comparing_absolute_values) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice the
    absolute value questions until you feel confident that you
    understand how to compare integers and absolute value (recommended a
    minimum of 10 minutes of practice).

    Practicing these problems will take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/c)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Checkpoint: The Mathematics Common Core Toolbox: “Cake Weighing,
    Part C” and “Part D”**

    Link: The Mathematics Common Core Toolbox: [“Cake Weighing, Part
    C”](http://ccsstoolbox.agilemind.com/parcc/middle_3.html) and [“Part
    D”](http://ccsstoolbox.agilemind.com/parcc/middle_4.html) (HTML)

    Instructions: In “Part C,” read about the Tasty Treats Cake Factory
    in the gray box. Answer the question and check your answer with the
    Submit Answer button. Do not move on until you have the correct
    answer.

    In “Part D,” answer the question and check your answer with the
    Submit Answer button. Do not move on until you have the correct
    answer.

    Completing these two questions and checking your work should take
    you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7)

    Terms of Use: Please respect the copyright and terms of use
    displayed on the webpage above.

-   **Checkpoint: College of the Redwoods Mathematics: Prealgebra
    Textbook: “Chapter 2, Section 1: An Introduction to the Integers”**

    Link: College of the Redwoods Mathematics: *Prealgebra Textbook*:
    [“Chapter 2, Section 1: An Introduction to the
    Integers”](http://mathrev.redwoods.edu/PreAlgText/chapter2.pdf) (PDF)

    Instructions: If needed for extra guidance, read through the
    sections under “2.1: An Introduction to the Integers.” As a
    checkpoint to see how well you know these concepts, click on
    “Exercises” under section 2.1 or scroll to page 106. Do all the ODD
    problems 1 - 69. Check your answers starting on page 110.

    Completing this checkpoint should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.5](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/5)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/a)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.6c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/6/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/a)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7b](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/b)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/c)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.NS.C.7d](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/NS/C/7/d)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Department of Mathematics, College of the
    Redwoods, and the original version can be found
    [here](http://mathrev.redwoods.edu/PreAlgText/chapter2.pdf).

**Checkpoint** <span id="1.5.3"></span> 
-   **Checkpoint: The Saylor Foundation’s “K12MATH006 Unit 1
    Checkpoint”**
    Link: The Saylor Foundation’s [“K12MATH006 Unit 1
    Checkpoint”](http://school.saylor.org/mod/quiz/view.php?id=1654) (HTML)  
      
     Instructions: Test your knowledge by completing this checkpoint.  
      
     Note: You must be logged into your Saylor Foundation School account
    in order to access this checkpoint. If you do not yet have an
    account, you will be able to create one, free of charge, after
    clicking the link.


