**Unit 4: Geometry** <span id="4"></span> 

*Did you ever play with shape blocks when you were younger? Possibly you
put a triangle next to a rectangle and then added a square on a
different side. Do you know how to find the area of this new shape? In
this unit, you will use your prior knowledge about area, as well as some
new information that we will cover, to help you decompose a complicated
shape into smaller polygons in order to successfully find the area of
the total shape. During this unit, you will also solve problems with
three-dimensional shapes and work with a variety of real-life
situations.*

**Unit 4 Time Advisory**  
Completing this unit should take you approximately 14 hours.

☐ Subunit 4.1: 30 minutes

☐ Subunit 4.2: 6 hours and 45 minutes

☐ Subunit 4.3: 2 hours and 15 minutes

☐ Subunit 4.4: 3 hours

☐ Subunit 4.5: 1 hour and 30 minutes

**Unit4 Learning Outcomes**  
Upon successful completion of this unit, you will be able to:

-   Find the area of triangles and quadrilaterals.

-   Find the area of shapes composed of triangles and rectangles.

-   Apply the standard area formula to real-world situations.

-   Find the volume of rectangular prisms, including prisms with
    fractional side lengths.

-   Define the basic formula for volume of a rectangle prism. Explain
    why it works with unit cubes.

-   Represent a three-dimensional figure with a two-dimensional net.

-   Solve surface-area problems using two-dimensional nets.

-   Apply techniques for finding area, volume, and surface area to
    real-world situations.

Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/4)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.2](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/2/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.4](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/4/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.7](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/7/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.9](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/9/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.7](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/7/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.9](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/9/)

**4.1 One-, Two-, and Three-Dimensional Measurements** <span
id="4.1"></span> 

*Our world is three-dimensional. You can pick up objects up and hold
them in your hand. When you look at a three-dimensional object, you can
see that it has length, width, and height/depth. However, we also use
one- and two- dimensions in our world, as well. One-dimensional objects
are just lines, or lengths; for example, neighborhoods separate family
property by a one-dimensional boundary. People often measure the length
of their property line and build a fence. The fence itself is
three-dimensional; however, the length of the fence is one-dimensional.*

*Two-dimensional refers to something that has a length and a width. When
you look at a photograph, go to a movie, or watch television, you are
viewing objects as two-dimensional (assuming you don’t have the special
3-D glasses). The walls in your bedroom might need painting. You could
measure the length and width of the walls to calculate how much paint to
buy. A wall is two-dimensional because it’s flat.*

*When you walk around in your everyday life, think about how people use
one-, two-, and three-dimensional measurements. *

-   **Activity: The Saylor Foundation’s “Understanding One-, Two-, and
    Three-Dimensions”**

    Link: The Saylor Foundation’s [“Understanding One-, Two-, and
    Three-Dimensions”](https://resources.saylor.org/wwwresources/archived/site/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/K12MATH006-4.1-DimensionsTable.pdf) (PDF)

    Instructions: Using this resource as a guide, you will create a
    table to help you learn about dimensional measurements. In your
    notebook, separate a page into three columns. Your paper should look
    similar to the one you see in the attached link. Title each column
    “One-Dimensional,” “Two-Dimensional,” and “Three-Dimensional.” Use
    the 4.1 subunit introduction, your prior knowledge, and the
    resources in this unit to add ideas about working with each
    dimension. It will be helpful to go back and refer to this table as
    you work through geometry units.

    Setting up your notebook and beginning to fill in this chart should
    take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.2](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/2/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.4](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/4/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.7](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/7/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.9](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/9/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.7](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/7/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.9](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/9/)

-   **Explanation: Khan Academy’s “Perimeter and Area Basics”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Perimeter and Area
    Basics”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/geometry/basic-geometry/perimeter_area_tutorial/v/perimeter-and-area-basics) (YouTube)

    Instructions: The video starts off showing you how to find the
    perimeter of a rectangle. This is probably a review of your prior
    knowledge. While you watch, draw the shapes and find the perimeter
    of the rectangles in the video. Remember, perimeter is a
    one-dimensional measurement because it’s a single line going around
    an object.

    The second part of the video discusses area. Remember, area is a
    two-dimensional measurement because it has a length and width. When
    we find area, we use the label square units or units2 because we can
    actually cover our shape with squares and count them to find the
    area, as demonstrated in the video. Take notes while the instructor
    finds the areas of the rectangles.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

**4.2 Area** <span id="4.2"></span> 

*This subunit focuses specifically on finding the area of a variety of
shapes. Remember, area is measured in square units or units2. You will
use different formulas to find area based on the shape you are working
with. Try not to get too caught up in memorizing formulas. It is
actually much easier if you stop and think about the shape and a
strategy that would make sense for finding its area. The resources in
this unit will help you with these strategies. This subunit will give
you a chance to add notes to your “Two-Dimensional” column in your
notebook.*

**4.2.1 Triangles** <span id="4.2.1"></span> 

*As you work through the resources in this subunit, really focus on how
you can understand and not just memorize the formula for the area of a
triangle. Even though there are different types of triangles, you will
discover how similar the strategies are for finding the area.*

-   **Explanation: Khan Academy’s “Triangle Area Proof”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Triangle Area
    Proof”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/geometry/basic-geometry/perimeter_area_tutorial/v/triangle-area-proofs) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Draw a right triangle in your notebook. Follow along
    with the strategy to make the triangle into a rectangle. Notice how
    your triangle is exactly half of the rectangle you drew around it.
    Copy the formula that fits with this strategy used in the video.

    Continue watching the “proof” for how to find the area of the other
    types of triangles shown in the video. Draw each triangle with the
    instructor. Consider how you can use the same strategy of drawing
    rectangles around triangles to find the area of any triangle.

    It is OK to refer to the formula A = bh (area = x base x height)
    when dealing with triangles. However, you should be able to explain
    why that formula works.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Base and
    Height”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Base and
    Height”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/656/original/illustrative_mathematics_656.pdf?1343856939) (PDF)

    Instruction: Read about Mrs. Lito’s students and look at the way
    they labeled the triangles. Answer questions a and b. Scroll down to
    read the “Commentary” and “Solution” sections on pages 2 and 3.

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Area of Triangles”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Area of
    Triangles”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/geometry/basic-geometry/perimeter_area_tutorial/e/area_of_triangles_1) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice solving
    for the area of triangles until you feel confident that you
    understand how to find the area of a triangle (recommended a minimum
    of 10 minutes of practice).

    Completing these practice problems should take you approximately 15
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

**4.2.2 Quadrilaterals** <span id="4.2.2"></span> 

*A quadrilateral is a four-sided shape. You probably have some
experience with quadrilaterals like rectangles and squares. This subunit
will review the area of some quadrilaterals. *

-   **Explanation: Khan Academy’s “Area and Perimeter”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Area and
    Perimeter”](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/cc-sixth-grade-math/cc-6th-geometry-topic/cc-6th-area/v/perimeter-and-area-basics) (YouTube)

    Instructions: While watching this video, press pause when the
    instructor shows you a new shape. Draw the shape in your notebook
    and find the area and perimeter of the shape. Watch and listen as he
    explains the process. Don’t just skip ahead to the answer because
    the instructor gives you some important reminders.

    Watching this video and completing the sample problems should take
    you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Area 1”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Area
    1”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/geometry/basic-geometry/perimeter_area_basics/e/area_1) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice solving
    for area until you feel confident that you understand how to find
    the area (recommended a minimum of 10 minutes of practice).

    Working these practice problems should take you approximately 15
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Area of Squares and
    Rectangles”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Area of Squares and
    Rectangles”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/geometry/basic-geometry/perimeter_area_basics/e/area_of_squares_and_rectangles) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice solving
    for area until you feel confident that you understand how to find
    the area (recommended a minimum of 10 minutes of practice).

    Working these practice problems should take you approximately 15
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Explanation: Bettina Richmond and Tom Richmond’s “Area Formulas
    for Basic Shapes”**

    Link: Bettina Richmond and Tom Richmond’s [“Area Formulas for Basic
    Shapes”](http://people.wku.edu/tom.richmond/area.html) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides you with animated justification for
    how to find the area of shapes. Watch the animation for “Area of a
    Rectangle” and “Area of a Parallelogram.” In your notebook, take
    notes of the formula and the text given to you. Also, sketch the
    animation the best you can. Note: there is no sound.

    Completing this task should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: Please respect the copyright and terms of use
    displayed on the webpage above.

-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Area of a Parallelogram”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Area of a
    Parallelogram”](http://www.ck12.org/geometry/Area-of-a-Parallelogram/lesson/Area-of-a-Parallelogram/) (HTML)

    Instructions: The previous resource showed you an animation of how
    to find the area of a parallelogram. This resource will also explain
    through words and pictures how to find the area of a parallelogram
    and why it works. Read through the introduction; take notes as you
    read through the “Guidance” section. Do the example problems and
    write down the vocabulary words. Complete the “Guided Practice” and
    watch the video. You will do some practice problems below.

    Taking notes, working examples, and watching the video should take
    you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Activity: Khan Academy’s “Area of
    Parallelograms”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Area of
    Parallelograms”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/geometry/basic-geometry/area_non_standard/e/area_of_parallelograms) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Practice solving
    for area until you feel confident that you understand how to find
    the area (recommended a minimum of 10 minutes of practice).

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    “Example: Determine the Area of a Rectangle Using Mixed Numbers”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Example: Determine the
    Area of a Rectangle Using Mixed
    Numbers”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4JtcIEJclRA) (YouTube)

    Instructions: As you watch the video, draw the rectangle and label
    the side lengths. Pause the video while you solve for the area of
    the rectangle. (This is a good review for dealing with fractions.)
    Don’t forget to simplify your answer back to a mixed number. Watch
    the remainder of the video. Compare your answer with the
    instructor’s.

    Completing this problem should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

**4.2.3 Composite Figures** <span id="4.2.3"></span> 

*Picture a square and a triangle pushed up together to share a side
length. This is called a composite figure. A composite figure is a
figure that is made of a variety of shapes. When you are asked to find
the perimeter of a composite figure, keep in mind that perimeter is the
distance around an object. It is sometimes helpful to take your pencil
and trace the outside of the object; you will need to add each of those
side lengths together to find the perimeter. When finding the area of a
composite figure, think about how you can break the object into smaller,
separate shapes. Once you’ve done that, you will find the area of the
smaller shapes. Then, you will add the individual areas together.
Sometimes, side lengths won’t be given, but clues within the problem or
the shape can help you figure out the missing side length. *

-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Area of Composite Shapes”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Area of Composite
    Shapes”](http://www.ck12.org/geometry/Area-of-Composite-Shapes/lesson/Area-of-Composite-Shapes/) (HTML)

    Instructions: This lesson will provide you with a few videos to
    explain how to find the area of composite shapes. Begin watching the
    first video. Pause the video so you can take the time to draw the
    shape. Solve for the area of the composite shape with the
    instructor. Note: at the 1:40 mark in the video, the instructor
    figures that the height of the triangle is 3. Do not worry about the
    process used to find the height. You will learn about that later in
    your math career.

    Scroll down to the second video and begin watching. Pause the video
    to draw the shape. Try to find the area of the composite figure
    before the instructor. Watch the instructor’s process. Complete the
    next composite shape with the same process.

    Complete practice problems 1 - 15 at the end of the lesson.

    Watching these videos and completing the practice problems should
    take you approximately 45 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Area of Composite Shapes Involving
    Triangles”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Area of Composite Shapes Involving
    Triangles”](http://www.ck12.org/geometry/Area-of-Composite-Shapes-Involving-Triangles/lesson/Area-of-Composite-Shapes-Involving-Triangles/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read about home plate. Think of other everyday objects
    that are made of a variety of shapes - the “key” on a basketball
    court, a hopscotch pattern, a stained glass window, and the front
    image of a house. Read through the “Guidance” section, draw the
    composite figures, and label the side lengths. Work the example
    problems. For each one, draw the shape and calculate the area. Check
    your work with the answer provided. Continue working down the page,
    completing the “Guided Practice” and “Practice” problems.

    Taking notes and completing the practice problems should take you
    approximately 1 hour.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    “Ex: Find the Area of an L-Shaped Polygon Involving Whole Numbers”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Ex: Find the Area of
    an L-Shaped Polygon Involving Whole
    Numbers”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lx8vweYTPpg) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Look at the composite figure. Pause the video. Draw
    the shape and find the area - remember to split the composite figure
    into smaller rectangles. To find the length of the missing sides,
    use the other side lengths given to you. Do not estimate, measure,
    or guess side lengths! Watch the remainder of the video to compare
    your strategy to the instructor’s. Could you have split your
    composite figure into rectangles in a different way than the
    instructor did, while still finding the area to be the same?

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Interesting Perimeter
    and Area Problems”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Interesting Perimeter and Area
    Problems”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/geometry/basic-geometry/perimeter_area_tutorial/v/interesting-perimeter-and-area-problems) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Watch the video and pause it at the 0:40 mark. Draw
    the star shape on your paper. Try to find the perimeter based on the
    information given to you. Watch the instructor as he explains how to
    find the star perimeter. Compare your strategy to his.

    Pause the video at 2:40. Think about how you can find the area of
    this shape. Break it into two smaller shapes. Draw the composite
    figure and find the area. If you are struggling, watch another 1:00
    to see a good first step in solving for this area. Once you have
    found the area, watch the instructor as he continues explaining how
    to find the area of the composite figure. Compare your strategy to
    his.

    Pause the video at 5:20. Draw the shape. Label the given side
    lengths. Think about how you find the other side lengths (without
    guessing, estimating, or measuring). If you need a hint, watch the
    video for another 1:10 and see what the instructor’s strategy is
    with the side lengths. If you feel confident, pause the video again
    at 6:30 and find the perimeter. Watch the remainder of the video to
    see how the instructor finds the perimeter.

    Watching this video and working through the example problems should
    take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    “Ex: Determine the Area of an L-Shaped Polygon Using Decimals”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Ex: Determine the Area
    of an L-Shaped Polygon Using
    Decimals”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=roRp3BjHwbU) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Look at the composite figure. Pause the video. Draw
    the shape and find the area - remember to split the composite figure
    into smaller rectangles. To find the length of the missing sides,
    use the other side lengths given to you. Do not estimate, measure,
    or guess side lengths! Watch the remainder of the video to compare
    your strategy to the instructor’s. Could you have split your
    composite figure into rectangles in a different way than the
    instructor did, while still finding the area to be the same?

    Completing this problem should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Finding Areas
    of Polygons, Variation 1”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Finding Areas of Polygons,
    Variation
    1”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/647/original/illustrative_mathematics_647.pdf?1343856949) (HTML)

    Instructions: This activity is an opportunity for you to explore
    different strategies for finding area. Keep in mind that when you
    have a composite figure, there is not a simple formula for finding
    area. You will need to problem solve and think outside the box as
    you work to find two strategies for finding the area of each
    polygon. Once you have answers, scroll down and read the
    “Commentary” and “Solution” sections on pages 2 and 3.

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    “Area Application - Area of an Inner Room with an Outer Footing”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Area Application -
    Area of an Inner Room with an Outer
    Footing”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NZVXgu4MsAU&feature=youtu.be) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Read the problem with the instructor. Pause the video
    at the 0:25 mark. Draw the room and the outer footing. Solve for the
    inside dimensions and area of the inner room. Watch the remainder of
    the video to compare your strategy with the instructor’s.

    Watching this video and completing the activity should take you
    approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

**4.3 Surface Area** <span id="4.3"></span> 

*Have you ever wrapped a gift for someone? You have to make sure you cut
off enough wrapping paper so that it covers the entire gift. The box
that gift is in is a three-dimensional box; in math it would be called a
rectangular prism (although you might just think of it as a shoebox).
The wrapping paper covers the gift - each side, or face, of the box is a
two-dimensional surface. To figure out how much wrapping paper is
needed, mathematicians find the surface area. This subunit focuses on
how to find surface area and introduces you important vocabulary you
need to know when dealing with two- and three-dimensional objects. This
subunit will give you a chance to add notes to your “Two-Dimensional”
and “Three-Dimensional” columns in your notebook.*

**4.3.1 Nets** <span id="4.3.1"></span> 
-   **Explanation: Explanation: CK-12: “Surface Area of Prisms”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Surface Area of
    Prisms”](http://www.ck12.org/geometry/Surface-Area-of-Prisms/lesson/Surface-Area-of-Prisms/) (HTML)

    Instructions: The purpose of this lesson is to help you learn some
    vocabulary concerning two- and three-dimensional measurements. While
    you read through the lesson, do not focus on the mathematical
    computations; you will work on the math a little later.

    Read the introduction. In the “Guidance” section, take notes on
    words such as **three-dimensional, prism, surface area,** and
    **net.** After the third “sticky note” with a net on it, skip down
    to examples A, B, and C. Go through each true/false question.

    Skip down to the “Vocabulary” section. Make sure you have each of
    the vocabulary words clearly defined in your notebook.

    If you can, cut out a net from a piece of your notebook paper (or
    graph paper if you have it). Fold the net to form a
    three-dimensional rectangular prism or cube. Tape your rectangular
    prism together and use it as an example as you continue through this
    unit.

    Taking notes and building a net should take you approximately 45
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/4)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

**4.3.2 Parts of a Three-Dimensional Object** <span id="4.3.2"></span> 
-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Faces, Edges, and Vertices of Solids”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Faces, Edges, and Vertices of
    Solids”](http://www.ck12.org/geometry/Faces-Edges-and-Vertices-of-Solids/lesson/Faces-Edges-and-Vertices-of-Solids/) (HTML)

    Instructions: This lesson will give you some more vocabulary as you
    work with three-dimensional objects. As you read the “Guidance”
    section, take notes on the vocabulary words: **faces, edges,** and
    **vertices**.

    Draw a rectangular prism, or use an actual object that you can point
    to and label - a shoebox or even a computer are examples of a
    rectangular prism. Objects are often described by their number of
    faces, edges, or vertices. The word face is used when finding
    surface area (see subunit 4.3.3), so make sure you understand these
    vocabulary words.

    Complete the examples, read through and take notes on the
    “Vocabulary” section (you will not be expected to know about a
    cylinder, pyramid, cone, or sphere as a sixth-grade student), and
    complete the “Guided Practice” questions.

    Watch the video for another view of how to label faces, edges, and
    vertices. Complete problems 1 - 7 in the “Practice” section.

    Taking notes, completing the practice problems, and watching the
    video should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/4)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

**4.3.3 Solving for Surface Area** <span id="4.3.3"></span> 
-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Surface Area of Rectangular Prism”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Surface Area of Rectangular
    Prisms”](http://www.ck12.org/geometry/Surface-Area-of-Rectangular-Prisms/lesson/Surface-Area-of-Rectangular-Prisms/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read through the introduction about wrapping the doll
    house. Take notes as you read through the “Guidance” section. Solve
    the example problems given to you. Draw both a rectangular prism and
    a net for each problem. This will help you recognize how a
    two-dimensional net is related to a three-dimensional rectangular
    prism. The formula for the surface area of a rectangular prism is
    long and complex. However, write it down and think about how each
    part related to the actual shape.

    Write down the vocabulary words, and then continue on to the “Guided
    Practice” section. Watch the video provided. Notice there is not a
    lid on the box. This takes away an entire face.

    Answer questions 1 - 10 in the “Practice” section.

    Taking notes, watching the video, and completing the practice
    problems should take you approximately 1 hour.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/4)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

**4.4 Volume** <span id="4.4"></span> 

*Remember the gift you were wrapping in the previous subunit? What’s
inside? How do you know if you have a box that is big enough for the
object you are wrapping? Whenever you are thinking about the space
inside of something, you are dealing with volume. Volume is a
three-dimensional measurement because it has a length, width and a
height (recall the one-dimensional measurement has only a length;
two-dimensional measurements have a length and a width). Volume adds a
third dimension - height, or sometimes called depth. Have you ever been
to a swimming pool? The amount of water in the pool is the volume. Have
you ever crammed your suitcase full of clothes before you went on a
trip? The amount of stuff inside your luggage is volume. This subunit
focuses on how to find volume and will give you important vocabulary for
dealing with volume. This subunit will give you a chance to add notes to
your “Three-Dimensional” column in your notebook.*

**4.4.1 Using Cubic Units** <span id="4.4.1"></span> 
-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Volume of Prisms Using Unit Cubes”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Volume of Prisms Using Unit
    Cubes”](http://www.ck12.org/geometry/Volume-of-Prisms-Using-Unit-Cubes/lesson/Volume-of-Prisms-Using-Unit-Cubes/) (HTML)

    Instruction: Read through and take notes on the “Guidance” section.
    Notice the label for volume is in cubic units or units3 because
    volume involves counting the cubes to fill an object. Complete the
    problems in the “Examples” section in your notebook, take notes on
    the “Vocabulary” (as a sixth-grade student you do not need to know
    triangular prisms), and complete the “Guided Practice” sections.
    Stop there for now. You will do some practice with unit cubes in the
    next resource.

    Reading this lesson and taking notes should take you approximately
    30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Computing
    Volume Progression 1”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Computing Volume Progression
    1”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/534/original/illustrative_mathematics_534.pdf?1343856945) (HTML)

    Instructions: Think about filling a box in the shape of a cube
    (remember a cube has all equal sides). Answer questions a and b.
    Check your answers on the second page.

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

**4.4.2 Understanding the Equation V = lwh and V = bh** <span
id="4.4.2"></span> 
-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Volume of Rectangular Prism”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Volume of Rectangular
    Prism”](http://www.ck12.org/geometry/Volume-of-Rectangular-Prisms/lesson/Volume-of-Rectangular-Prisms/) (HTML)

    Instructions: As you read through the introduction, notice that
    Candice and Trevor are “filling” their boxes with the packing
    peanuts. When you see the word “fill” you can often know that the
    problem involves volume. Continue reading and take notes on the
    “Guidance” section. Draw some rectangular prisms (do your best with
    three-dimensional drawing), label each side “length,” “width,” and
    “height.” As you read you will notice there are two formulas. Make
    sure you not only know how to use each formula, but that you also
    know the difference between them and can explain how they work.
    Continue with the example problems, vocabulary, and guided practice.
    In the “Practice” section, complete problems 1 - 10. Draw and label
    a rectangular prism for at least half of the practice problems to
    get an image of how the prism looks.

    Reading this lesson, taking notes, and completing the practice
    problems should take you approximately 45 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

-   **Activity: Howard County Public School System’s “Student
    Homework”**

    Link: Howard County Public School System’s [“Student
    Homework”](https://grade6commoncoremath.wikispaces.hcpss.org/Unit+4+Geometry) (HTML)

    Instructions: Scroll down to the third section, 6.G.2. Download the
    document “6.G.2 Student Homework.docx.” Answer the three questions
    in this activity. Notice that the cubes are inch on each side. The
    boxes have fractional side lengths as well. You will have to use
    both your volume skills and your fraction skills to solve these
    problems.

    Check that your answers
    [here](https://resources.saylor.org/wwwresources/archived/site/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/K12MATH006-4.4.2-StudentResourceSheetAnswerKey.pdf) (PDF) when
    you are finished.

    Completing these practice problems should take you approximately 30
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under
    a[](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/)[Creative
    Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to Howard County Public Schools Office of Secondary
    Mathematics Curricular Projects.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Computing
    Volume Progression 2”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Computing Volume Progression
    2”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/535/original/illustrative_mathematics_535.pdf?1343856946) (HTML)

    Instructions: Answer questions a and b. It might be helpful to draw
    a model of what the water level will look like in question b. Scroll
    down and read the commentary and the solution on the second page.

    Completing this activity and checking your work should take you
    approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Computing
    Volume Progression 3"**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Computing Volume Progression
    3”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/536/original/illustrative_mathematics_536.pdf?1343856947) (HTML)

    Instructions: As you read this problem, keep in mind that you will
    need to do some converting of units before you work to find the
    height of the tank. A good strategy to consider is that although the
    problem is talking about water, volume is measured in cubed units.
    Think about the amount of space the first layer (height of 1 cm)
    takes up. Consider that you will need to see how many 50 cm by 60 cm
    layers should be stacked to fill the tank full. Scroll down and read
    the commentary and the solution on the second page.

    Completing this activity and checking your work should take you
    approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

**4.5 Real-Life Situations and Word Problems Involving Geometric
Shapes** <span id="4.5"></span> 

*Painting your bedroom walls, filling a swimming pool with water,
planting grass seed in the yard, and wrapping a gift are just a few
examples of real-life situations when you will use geometry.
Understanding how to find perimeter, area, surface area, and volume are
all very important. However, the initial task is to know what the
question is asking and to understand what type of formula will be used.
As you go through this subunit, stop and think about each situation.
Consider key words that might trigger ideas to know if you are dealing
with one-, two-, or three-dimensional measurements. This subunit will
give you a chance to use the notes from your notebook. You can also add
additional real-life examples to each of the columns in your notebook.*

*Click
[here](file:///C:UsersOwnerDocumentsSaylorK12K12MATH6%20-%20Unit%204%20Dimensions%20table_end%20of%20unit-VFINAL.docx)
to see an example of how the “Understanding One-, Two-, and
Three-Dimensions” might look at this point in the unit. *

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Banana
    Bread”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Banana
    Bread”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/657/original/illustrative_mathematics_657.pdf?1343856937) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read the problem on the first page about making banana
    bread. Solve the problem and describe why you think your answer
    makes sense. Scroll down to second page and read the “Commentary”
    and “Solution” sections. Compare your strategy with the one
    provided.

    Completing this activity and checking your work should take you
    approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Painting a
    Barn”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Painting a
    Barn”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/135/original/illustrative_mathematics_135.pdf?1343856950) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read and solve the problem on the first page. Explain
    your work. Refer to the notes you made throughout this unit to help
    you consider what math operation to use when painting walls. Scroll
    down to the second page and read the “Commentary” and “Solution”
    sections. Compare your strategy with the one provided.

    Completing this activity and checking your work should take you
    approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/4)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Checkpoint: Illustrative Mathematics: “Computing Volume
    Progression 4”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Computing Volume Progression
    4”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/537/original/illustrative_mathematics_537.pdf?1343856948) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read the problem on the first page about taking the
    stone out of the rectangular tank. Solve the problem and describe
    why you think your answer makes sense. Scroll down to the second
    page and read the “Commentary” and “Solution” sections. Compare your
    strategy with the one provided.

    Completing this task and checking your work should take you
    approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Checkpoint: Illustrative Mathematics: “Christo’s Building”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Christo’s
    Building”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/545/original/illustrative_mathematics_545.pdf?1343856940) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read through the problem and answer all questions.
    Take your time thinking about what each question is asking and how
    to solve it. Draw models and show your work. Scroll down and read
    through the “Commentary” and “Solution” sections on pages 2 and 3.

    Completing this activity and checking your work should take you
    approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/2)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.G.A.4](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/G/A/4)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

**Checkpoint** <span id="4.5.1"></span> 
-   **Checkpoint: The Saylor Foundation’s “K12MATH006 Unit 4
    Checkpoint”**
    Link: The Saylor Foundation’s [“K12MATH006 Unit 4
    Checkpoint”](http://school.saylor.org/mod/quiz/view.php?id=1657) (HTML)  
      
     Instructions: Test your knowledge by completing this checkpoint.  
      
     Note: You must be logged into your Saylor Foundation School account
    in order to access this checkpoint. If you do not yet have an
    account, you will be able to create one, free of charge, after
    clicking the link.


